README.md, before:

# pyg-ssl

**[Documentation](https://pygssl-tutorial.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)** | **[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.21151)**

PyG-SSL is a Python library built upon [PyTorch](https://pytorch.org) and [PyTorch Geometric](https://pytorch-geometric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). It integrates state-of-the-art algorithms for Self-Supervised Learning on Graphs and offers simple APIs to call the algorithms from a variety of high-quality research papers.

**Node-level Algorithms for General Graphs**: [DGI](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1809.10341.pdf), [GraphCL](https://proceedings.nips.cc/paper/2020/file/3fe230348e9a12c13120749e3f9fa4cd-Paper.pdf), 
[MVGRL](https://proceedings.mlr.press/v119/hassani20a/hassani20a.pdf), [GCA](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.14945), 
[SUGRL](https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20748), [ReGCL](https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28698), 
[BGRL](https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.06514), [AFGRL](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.02472)

**Algorithms for Heterogeneous/Multiplex/Multiview Graphs**: [HeCo](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2105.09111.pdf)

**Graph-level Algorithms for Graph-level Representation Learning or Molecular Graphs**: [InfoGraph](https://openreview.net/pdf?id=r1lfF2NYvH), [GraphCL](https://proceedings.nips.cc/paper/2020/file/3fe230348e9a12c13120749e3f9fa4cd-Paper.pdf), [GraphMAE](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2205.10803.pdf)


----------------------------------------------------------
![Overview](figures/overview.png)
Generally, PyG-SSL have four components: Configuration, Method, Trainer and Evaluator. The user only needs to specify the configuration and write a simple script which calls the other components within this framework. The library will automatically run the method, train the model, and evaluate the results. The user can also customize the method, trainer, and evaluator to fit their own needs. We provide example configurations in the configuration folder , and example scripts in the root folder. The user can easily modify these configurations and scripts to run their own experiments.

## Installation
While we provide requirements.txt for installing the dependencies with pip, sometimes pip is not able to resolve the dependencies correctly. We recommend using the following ways to build the environment.
### Directly use the source
One way to use the source code is to clone the repository and install the dependencies. We recommend to create a new conda environment to prevent conflicts with other packages. 
```bash
conda create -n pyg-ssl python=3.9
pip install torch_geometric
pip install pyg_lib torch_scatter torch_sparse torch_cluster torch_spline_conv -f https://data.pyg.org/whl/torch-2.3.0+cu121.html
pip install faiss-gpu
pip install dgl -f https://data.dgl.ai/wheels/torch-2.3/cu121/repo.html
pip install scikit-learn matplotlib seaborn yacs
```
Then you are free to go with some basic examples. In the root directory of this repository, you can run the following command to test the installation.
```bash
cp examples/example_dgi.py .
python example_dgi.py
```

### Use our docker image
We provide a docker image at https://hub.docker.com/r/violet24k/pyg-ssl for users to run the code easily. Our docker image is based on the official PyTorch docker image with pytorch 2.3.1, cuda 12.1 and python 3.10.14.

### Build from source
We provide setup.py for users to build the package from source. You can run the following command to build the package.
```bash
conda create -n pyg-ssl python=3.9
pip install -e .    # -e for editable mode so that you can taylor the code to your needs
 

# test the installation
python
>>> import pyg_ssl
>>> print(pyg_ssl.__version__)
```
Then you can run the example scripts in the root directory of this repository.

### Install from pip
We are preparing the pip package and will release it soon.


## Cite
If you find this repository useful in your research, please consider citing the following paper:

```
@article{zheng2024pyg,
  title={PyG-SSL: A Graph Self-Supervised Learning Toolkit},
  author={Zheng, Lecheng and Jing, Baoyu and Li, Zihao and Zeng, Zhichen and Wei, Tianxin and Ai, Mengting and He, Xinrui and Liu, Lihui and Fu, Dongqi and You, Jiaxuan and others},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.21151},
  year={2024}
}
```

```
@inproceedings{DBLP:conf/kdd/ZhengJLTH24,
  author       = {Lecheng Zheng and
                  Baoyu Jing and
                  Zihao Li and
                  Hanghang Tong and
                  Jingrui He},
  editor       = {Ricardo Baeza{-}Yates and
                  Francesco Bonchi},
  title        = {Heterogeneous Contrastive Learning for Foundation Models and Beyond},
  booktitle    = {Proceedings of the 30th {ACM} {SIGKDD} Conference on Knowledge Discovery
                  and Data Mining, {KDD} 2024, Barcelona, Spain, August 25-29, 2024},
  pages        = {6666--6676},
  publisher    = {{ACM}},
  year         = {2024},
  url          = {https://doi.org/10.1145/3637528.3671454},
  doi          = {10.1145/3637528.3671454},
  timestamp    = {Sun, 08 Sep 2024 16:05:58 +0200},
  biburl       = {https://dblp.org/rec/conf/kdd/ZhengJLTH24.bib},
  bibsource    = {dblp computer science bibliography, https://dblp.org}
}
```

Commit message:

update readme for docker support

README.md, after:

# pyg-ssl

**[Documentation](https://pygssl-tutorial.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)** | **[Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.21151)**

PyG-SSL is a Python library built upon [PyTorch](https://pytorch.org) and [PyTorch Geometric](https://pytorch-geometric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). It integrates state-of-the-art algorithms for Self-Supervised Learning on Graphs and offers simple APIs to call the algorithms from a variety of high-quality research papers.

**Node-level Algorithms for General Graphs**: [DGI](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1809.10341.pdf), [GraphCL](https://proceedings.nips.cc/paper/2020/file/3fe230348e9a12c13120749e3f9fa4cd-Paper.pdf), 
[MVGRL](https://proceedings.mlr.press/v119/hassani20a/hassani20a.pdf), [GCA](https://arxiv.org/abs/2010.14945), 
[SUGRL](https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20748), [ReGCL](https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28698), 
[BGRL](https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.06514), [AFGRL](https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.02472)

**Algorithms for Heterogeneous/Multiplex/Multiview Graphs**: [HeCo](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2105.09111.pdf)

**Graph-level Algorithms for Graph-level Representation Learning or Molecular Graphs**: [InfoGraph](https://openreview.net/pdf?id=r1lfF2NYvH), [GraphCL](https://proceedings.nips.cc/paper/2020/file/3fe230348e9a12c13120749e3f9fa4cd-Paper.pdf), [GraphMAE](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2205.10803.pdf)


----------------------------------------------------------
![Overview](figures/overview.png)
Generally, PyG-SSL have four components: Configuration, Method, Trainer and Evaluator. The user only needs to specify the configuration and write a simple script which calls the other components within this framework. The library will automatically run the method, train the model, and evaluate the results. The user can also customize the method, trainer, and evaluator to fit their own needs. We provide example configurations in the configuration folder , and example scripts in the root folder. The user can easily modify these configurations and scripts to run their own experiments.

## Installation
While we provide requirements.txt for installing the dependencies with pip, sometimes pip is not able to resolve the dependencies correctly. We recommend using the following ways to build the environment.
### Directly use the source
One way to use the source code is to clone the repository and install the dependencies. We recommend to create a new conda environment to prevent conflicts with other packages. 
```bash
conda create -n pyg-ssl python=3.9
pip install torch_geometric
pip install pyg_lib torch_scatter torch_sparse torch_cluster torch_spline_conv -f https://data.pyg.org/whl/torch-2.3.0+cu121.html
pip install faiss-gpu
pip install dgl -f https://data.dgl.ai/wheels/torch-2.3/cu121/repo.html
pip install scikit-learn matplotlib seaborn yacs
```
Then you are free to go with some basic examples. In the root directory of this repository, you can run the following command to test the installation.
```bash
cp examples/example_dgi.py .
python example_dgi.py
```

### Use our docker image
We provide a docker image at https://hub.docker.com/r/violet24k/pyg-ssl for users to run the code easily. Our docker image is based on the official PyTorch docker image with pytorch 2.3.1, cuda 12.1 and python 3.10.14.

With Docker installed on your machine, pull our image and start a container by
```bash
docker pull violet24k/pyg-ssl
docker run --gpus all -it -v .:/workspace violet24k/pyg-ssl bash
```

### Build from source
We provide setup.py for users to build the package from source. You can run the following command to build the package.
```bash
conda create -n pyg-ssl python=3.9
pip install -e .    # -e for editable mode so that you can taylor the code to your needs
 

# test the installation
python
>>> import pyg_ssl
>>> print(pyg_ssl.__version__)
```
Then you can run the example scripts in the root directory of this repository.

### Install from pip
We are preparing the pip package and will release it soon.


## Cite
If you find this repository useful in your research, please consider citing the following paper:

```
@article{zheng2024pyg,
  title={PyG-SSL: A Graph Self-Supervised Learning Toolkit},
  author={Zheng, Lecheng and Jing, Baoyu and Li, Zihao and Zeng, Zhichen and Wei, Tianxin and Ai, Mengting and He, Xinrui and Liu, Lihui and Fu, Dongqi and You, Jiaxuan and others},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.21151},
  year={2024}
}
```

```
@inproceedings{DBLP:conf/kdd/ZhengJLTH24,
  author       = {Lecheng Zheng and
                  Baoyu Jing and
                  Zihao Li and
                  Hanghang Tong and
                  Jingrui He},
  editor       = {Ricardo Baeza{-}Yates and
                  Francesco Bonchi},
  title        = {Heterogeneous Contrastive Learning for Foundation Models and Beyond},
  booktitle    = {Proceedings of the 30th {ACM} {SIGKDD} Conference on Knowledge Discovery
                  and Data Mining, {KDD} 2024, Barcelona, Spain, August 25-29, 2024},
  pages        = {6666--6676},
  publisher    = {{ACM}},
  year         = {2024},
  url          = {https://doi.org/10.1145/3637528.3671454},
  doi          = {10.1145/3637528.3671454},
  timestamp    = {Sun, 08 Sep 2024 16:05:58 +0200},
  biburl       = {https://dblp.org/rec/conf/kdd/ZhengJLTH24.bib},
  bibsource    = {dblp computer science bibliography, https://dblp.org}
}
```
